
This is intended to be a very simple vampire mod that is multiplayer friendly. feel free to nab this and tweak/port it to your hearts desire! (this was originally a datapack, but due to broken or moved 1.21.1 hooks, was ported to fabric.) This is my first minecraft mod, so enjoy the spaghetti! 

Mechanics: 
- Vampire and human tagging system. Vampirism can be toggled with [ /vampir curevampire @p ] and [/vampir addvampire @p ] by operators. There is a ritual, and a bite/infection mechanic as well. You can see your status by doing the command [ /vampir status @p ] For thematic reasons, without an admin, there is no cure to this curse. 

- The bite attack vampires get is simple, you sprint at a player with both hands empty to trigger the attack. If it lands, there is a 50/50 chance you trigger the blood sickness. Feature is located in VampirInfection.java Blood sickness is a potion effect. if you die or sleep with the effect, you turn into a vampire. buckets of milk and waiting the short timer out is how one keeps thier humanity! (BUG: potion effect has an icon, but is not connecting to it for some odd reason, the lang file also needs to be created. working on this ASAP! ModEffects.java & VampirDisease.java is where the potion effect is stored.) 

- The ritual to become a vampire is also very simple, and is a placeholder. You will need a 2x2 black terracotta floor and a diamond. right click the platform with the diamond at night to become a biter... if you are a vampire already, the ritual will not fire, and thus will not eat your diamond. VampirRitual.java is the file with this feature's code. 

- Vampires rot in the sun. I chose a non-fire method of damaging a vampire in sunlight. This is to prevent many mods from giving a player fire immunity and bypassing this weakness, it also serves to give a nod to more classic folklore about vampires being based on misunderstood decomposition. fun fact: vampires burning in the sun was not a thing until the nosferatu film, it got adopted into most vampire lore after. (BUG: Currently does not turn off when it is raining. It needs an added weather check...) This file is separate from the others so forks and personal edits can swap out the effect easier, look for VampirSunlight.java 

- Vampires are weak to wooden swords. (implemented in Vampir.java, needs more testing) - Vampire boons. Vampires are faster when in the shadows. this feature is located in VampirBoon.java 

- Undead are neutral to vampires, and zombies will follow vampires up until a distance of 6 blocks. A clever vampire can use this mechanic to build an army... be careful not to hit them though, they do get grumpy (BUGFEATURE: It seems that after hitting a zombie, if a vampire player runs away, and later finds the zombie again without dying, it wont attack the player unless they are standing right next to them. We playfully call them passive aggressive zombies. This is hilarious, and we will not patch this on purpose.) (Needs cleanup: the only way I could find to implement undead neutrality was by disabling the attack action towards a vampire player every tick... as you can imagine, this is potentially very laggy. If you have suggestions on how to implement the above better, please reach out! I'm very new to this. VampirZombies.java is where this feature is located. also see the mixins folder.) 

- (needs implemented: Water breathing) this feature will be located in VampirBoon.java I need a lag free way to implement it continuously. Bare handed attacks to a boost to damage. hold an item to reduce your damage for the sake of feeding.(BUG: Bare handed vampire attack speed+dmg boost is not firing consistently, and is lost after a vampire's death and respawning. VampirBoon.java is where this feature is located.) 

- (Pending removal: Claw weapon features. There's some junk lines still left in the code that need cleaned out due to my own inability to code it. this sticky cancelled feature is everywhere... I cannot escape! gold_claw, iron_claw, diamond_claw, and neterite_claw items were originally meant to stack with the bare handed damage, but do nothing for human players. gold claws were meant to do no damage, and could not receive mending. allowing infinite feeding so long as you kept making them. If someone wants to re-implement this, I would gladly make it part of the full mod with credit.) 

- Vampire diet As of now, Vampires can punch living things for hunger, or eat raw meat. VampirDiet.java still needs a lot of work and bug fixes. 
rabbits, dolphins, and foxes need to be added to the list of edibles/punchibles. Sea life and more cold blooded (and similar) creatures are being excluded from edibility. 
Gold apples + Gold carrots will be added as edible items. A planned feature is that it will only restore one half hunger bar for a vampire if possible, but still give them the saturation and other effects they normally do, respecting the magical properties of these items. Pending implementation, some features like hunger reduction of allowed foods, and boosts to raw meat items may not happen. 

- Vampires cannot eat mushroom stew, but can eat sus stew. This is intentional. I still need to implement the reduced hunger return of sus stew if possible. 

- Vampires sleeping during the day & coffin item: Pending, will be added to VampirSleep.java. I also need to figure out how to make block items, and work on blockbench. Planned now: adding the ability to sleep in a bed during the day.
